README.md, before:

# Cryptocurrency Trend Analysis and Prediction

This project provides a reproducible workflow for downloading, analysing, visualising, and modelling cryptocurrency time series. It targets the COMM7330 course requirements and supports a six-person collaboration workflow covering data acquisition, exploratory analysis, modelling, visual reporting, and presentation deliverables.

## Problem statement & objective

Retail crypto investors often jump between apps to answer three questions before taking action: *Is the market trending? Is volatility acceptable? Do complementary signals confirm my intuition?*  
Our 10‑minute presentation (and the supporting system) must therefore help a novice investor decide whether to **enter, hold, or exit** BTC/ETH positions within a single dashboard + report bundle. Every deliverable below links back to that north star.

## Project layout

```
data/             # Cached CSV downloads from yfinance + OKX helpers
notebooks/        # Jupyter notebooks for each analysis stage (to be authored by the team)
src/              # Reusable Python modules for data loading, analytics, viz, and modelling
main.py           # CLI entry point that runs the end-to-end workflow
requirements.txt  # Python dependencies
```

## Getting started

1. Create and activate a virtual environment (example for `venv`):
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate
   ```
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
3. Run the CLI to fetch yfinance OHLCV, OKX dominance candles, figures, and models in one go (use `--macro-series none` to skip macro pulls entirely). Set `--days` to **2000 or more** so each symbol has at least ~2000 rows of history:
   ```bash
   python main.py --symbols BTC-USD ETH-USD SOL-USD --days 2000 --interval 1d \
     --dominance-inst-id BTC-USDT --macro-series none \
     --export-xlsx exports/crypto_dashboard.xlsx
   ```
   The CLI always emits Matplotlib PNGs, Plotly HTML files, and interactive charts. Add `--force` to refresh cached CSVs, and use `--dominance-inst-id` to switch OKX sources.

## Module overview

- `src/data_loader.py` — Handles yfinance price pulls plus OKX dominance candles with CSV caching.
- `src/analysis.py` — Computes daily returns, rolling volatility, cross-asset correlations, and open-to-close period performance.
- `src/visualization.py` — Provides Matplotlib and Plotly helpers (price trends with volume overlays, candlestick charts, actual-vs-predicted plots).
- `src/model.py` — Implements a linear-regression baseline plus an ARIMA helper for time-series forecasting.

## Data acquisition cookbook

> **Environment prerequisites**
> - `pip install -r requirements.txt` already covers yfinance/OKX helpers.
>
> The CLI automatically runs the same helpers (yfinance OHLCV downloads + OKX BTC-USDT dominance proxy) and can bundle everything into Excel via `--export-xlsx`. The snippets below are for ad-hoc or notebook use.

### Data origin cheat sheet

- **yfinance** — Supplies OHLCV price history for every symbol passed via `--symbols` (e.g., `BTC-USD`, `ETH-USD`, `SOL-USD`). These rows populate the price charts, period stats, correlations, and model training data.
- **OKX public API** — Supplies the BTC-USDT dominance proxy (`open/high/low/close/volume_base`) via `download_okx_candles`. This dataset feeds the dominance exports/plots.

### Cookbook

1. **Price history via yfinance (BTC / ETH / SOL)**  
   ```python
   from datetime import date, timedelta
   from src.data_loader import DownloadConfig, download_price_histories

   today = date.today()
   start = today - timedelta(days=2000)
   configs = [
       DownloadConfig("BTC-USD", start, today),
       DownloadConfig("ETH-USD", start, today),
       DownloadConfig("SOL-USD", start, today),
   ]
   download_price_histories(configs)
   ```
2. **BTC dominance proxy (OKX BTC-USDT candles)**  
   ```python
   from src.data_loader import OkxCandlesConfig, download_okx_candles
   download_okx_candles(OkxCandlesConfig(inst_id="BTC-USDT", bar="1D"))
   ```
   Output CSV columns: `date, open, high, low, close, volume_base`.
3. *(reserved for future sources)* 当前 CLI 仅依赖 yfinance + OKX，如需补充其它指标，可在此扩展。

## Outputs at a glance

- **Excel price sheet** — Every symbol’s yfinance OHLCV history now includes two extra columns: `change_abs` (Close − Open) and `change_pct` (percentage change from the day’s open). These appear in the `prices` worksheet next to the raw K-line data.
- **Interactive K-line** — Hovering a candlestick shows Open/High/Low/Close plus the exact daily change and percentage change, making it easy to read the move without manual math.
- **Price vs MA chart (365 days)** — The Matplotlib chart in `figures/<symbol>_price.png` focuses on the most recent 365 sessions so MA7/MA30 crossovers and volume shifts remain legible even when the download spans 2000+ days.

## Planned extensions (aligned to the objective)

| Track | Why it matters | Concrete deliverables |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Narrative & objectives** | Keeps everyone driving toward “10-minute entry/exit guidance.” | README + persona brief with success metrics, plus notebook callouts that tie outputs back to the story. |
| **Multisource data spine** | Market-share context makes signals credible. | Harden CLI/export for BTC-USD/ETH-USD/SOL-USD (yfinance) plus OKX BTC-USDT dominance candles, and document a data dictionary with validation checks. |
| **Indicators & macro insight** | Users need interpretable triggers. | Add rolling max drawdown, Sharpe, BTC–ETH spread z-score, volatility regimes, MA crossovers; include trigger explanations in Notebook 02. |
| **Visualization & dashboard** | Stakeholders digest insights visually. | Plotly dashboard with price/dominance/macro/model overlays, regime shading, annotations, and exported PNG/GIF assets ready for PPT. |
| **Modeling & strategy** | Quantifies “what happens next” and actionability. | Compare LR/ARIMA vs Prophet/LSTM, implement MA crossover + predicted-return strategies, and output equity curves + confusion matrices. |
| **Notebook-first storytelling** | Slides/report should flow from notebooks. | Populate `notebooks/01-03` with markdown narration, saved charts/tables, and references indicating which slide/report section each asset supports. |

## Suggested team workflow

1. **Person A – Data ingestion lead**
   - Owns `src/data_loader.py` / CLI integrations to keep yfinance BTC/ETH/SOL pulls and OKX dominance candles healthy and timezone-clean.
   - Maintains Notebook 01’s ETL section (data dictionary, validation snippets) and ensures Excel export schemas stay stable.
2. **Person B – Feature engineering & cleaning**
   - Implements derived columns (returns, spreads, macro joins) inside Notebook 01 and supporting helpers in `src/analysis.py`.
   - Writes quick unit/notebook tests validating sample rows before data moves downstream.
3. **Person C – Indicator & macro analytics**
   - Extends `src/analysis.py` with rolling drawdown, Sharpe, volatility regimes, BTC–ETH z-scores, MA triggers, and documents each signal in Notebook 02 with code + commentary.
   - Hands off summarized tables/figures that cite the exact code cell for reuse.
4. **Person D – Visualization engineering**
   - Develops Plotly dashboards and Matplotlib figures inside `src/visualization.py`, wiring price/dominance/macro/model overlays plus annotations.
   - Automates figure export via CLI `--save-figures` or notebook cells, providing instructions/code for reproducing PNG/GIF assets.
5. **Person E – Modeling algorithms**
   - Focuses on model architectures inside Notebook 03 / `src/model.py` (LR/ARIMA baseline vs Prophet/LSTM), tuning hyperparameters and saving reusable checkpoints or inference helpers.
   - Documents training/evaluation code so others can reproduce metrics and swap models in or out.
6. **Person F – Strategy & pipeline integration**
   - Takes Person E’s predictions and owns the backtesting/export layer: wiring predictions into MA crossover / predicted-return strategies, extending `main.py` + Excel exports so new metrics land in the workbook.
   - Adds CLI/demo scripts that showcase the full pipeline (data → indicators → models → strategy outputs) and verifies each run emits the expected CSV/Excel/figure set.

Commit message:

Update main.py to calculate daily price changes (`change_abs` and `change_pct`) and adjust the price history plot window to 90 days. Revise README files to document these changes and enhance clarity on output features. Update visualization functions to highlight top volume days and improve legend handling in plots.

README.md, after:

# Cryptocurrency Trend Analysis and Prediction

This project provides a reproducible workflow for downloading, analysing, visualising, and modelling cryptocurrency time series. It targets the COMM7330 course requirements and supports a six-person collaboration workflow covering data acquisition, exploratory analysis, modelling, visual reporting, and presentation deliverables.

## Problem statement & objective

Retail crypto investors often jump between apps to answer three questions before taking action: *Is the market trending? Is volatility acceptable? Do complementary signals confirm my intuition?*  
Our 10‑minute presentation (and the supporting system) must therefore help a novice investor decide whether to **enter, hold, or exit** BTC/ETH positions within a single dashboard + report bundle. Every deliverable below links back to that north star.

## Project layout

```
data/             # Cached CSV downloads from yfinance + OKX helpers
notebooks/        # Jupyter notebooks for each analysis stage (to be authored by the team)
src/              # Reusable Python modules for data loading, analytics, viz, and modelling
main.py           # CLI entry point that runs the end-to-end workflow
requirements.txt  # Python dependencies
```

## Getting started

1. Create and activate a virtual environment (example for `venv`):
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate
   ```
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
3. Run the CLI to fetch yfinance OHLCV, OKX dominance candles, figures, and models in one go (use `--macro-series none` to skip macro pulls entirely). Set `--days` to **2000 or more** so each symbol has at least ~2000 rows of history:
   ```bash
   python main.py --symbols BTC-USD ETH-USD SOL-USD --days 2000 --interval 1d \
     --dominance-inst-id BTC-USDT --macro-series none \
     --export-xlsx exports/crypto_dashboard.xlsx
   ```
   The CLI always emits Matplotlib PNGs, Plotly HTML files, and interactive charts. Add `--force` to refresh cached CSVs, and use `--dominance-inst-id` to switch OKX sources.

## Module overview

- `src/data_loader.py` — Handles yfinance price pulls plus OKX dominance candles with CSV caching.
- `src/analysis.py` — Computes daily returns, rolling volatility, cross-asset correlations, and open-to-close period performance.
- `src/visualization.py` — Provides Matplotlib and Plotly helpers (price trends with volume overlays, candlestick charts, actual-vs-predicted plots).
- `src/model.py` — Implements a linear-regression baseline plus an ARIMA helper for time-series forecasting.

## Data acquisition cookbook

> **Environment prerequisites**
> - `pip install -r requirements.txt` already covers yfinance/OKX helpers.
>
> The CLI automatically runs the same helpers (yfinance OHLCV downloads + OKX BTC-USDT dominance proxy) and can bundle everything into Excel via `--export-xlsx`. The snippets below are for ad-hoc or notebook use.

### Data origin cheat sheet

- **yfinance** — Supplies OHLCV price history for every symbol passed via `--symbols` (e.g., `BTC-USD`, `ETH-USD`, `SOL-USD`). These rows populate the price charts, period stats, correlations, and model training data.
- **OKX public API** — Supplies the BTC-USDT dominance proxy (`open/high/low/close/volume_base`) via `download_okx_candles`. This dataset feeds the dominance exports/plots.

### Cookbook

1. **Price history via yfinance (BTC / ETH / SOL)**  
   ```python
   from datetime import date, timedelta
   from src.data_loader import DownloadConfig, download_price_histories

   today = date.today()
   start = today - timedelta(days=2000)
   configs = [
       DownloadConfig("BTC-USD", start, today),
       DownloadConfig("ETH-USD", start, today),
       DownloadConfig("SOL-USD", start, today),
   ]
   download_price_histories(configs)
   ```
2. **BTC dominance proxy (OKX BTC-USDT candles)**  
   ```python
   from src.data_loader import OkxCandlesConfig, download_okx_candles
   download_okx_candles(OkxCandlesConfig(inst_id="BTC-USDT", bar="1D"))
   ```
   Output CSV columns: `date, open, high, low, close, volume_base`.
3. *(reserved for future sources)* 当前 CLI 仅依赖 yfinance + OKX，如需补充其它指标，可在此扩展。

## Outputs at a glance

- **Excel price sheet** — Every symbol’s yfinance OHLCV history now includes two extra columns: `change_abs` (Close − Open) and `change_pct` (percentage change from the day’s open). These appear in the `prices` worksheet next to the raw K-line data.
- **Interactive K-line** — Hovering a candlestick shows Open/High/Low/Close plus the exact daily change and percentage change, making it easy to read the move without manual math.
- **Price vs MA chart (90 days)** — The Matplotlib chart in `figures/<symbol>_price.png` zooms into the latest 90 sessions, color-codes bull/bear regimes (Close vs MA30), draws both MA7 / MA30 as dashed overlays, shades the top-volume days, and shows teal/red volume bars (with a legend) depending on whether the session closed up or down; the volume axis now uses human-friendly million units instead of `1e11`-style ticks.

## Planned extensions (aligned to the objective)

| Track | Why it matters | Concrete deliverables |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Narrative & objectives** | Keeps everyone driving toward “10-minute entry/exit guidance.” | README + persona brief with success metrics, plus notebook callouts that tie outputs back to the story. |
| **Multisource data spine** | Market-share context makes signals credible. | Harden CLI/export for BTC-USD/ETH-USD/SOL-USD (yfinance) plus OKX BTC-USDT dominance candles, and document a data dictionary with validation checks. |
| **Indicators & macro insight** | Users need interpretable triggers. | Add rolling max drawdown, Sharpe, BTC–ETH spread z-score, volatility regimes, MA crossovers; include trigger explanations in Notebook 02. |
| **Visualization & dashboard** | Stakeholders digest insights visually. | Plotly dashboard with price/dominance/macro/model overlays, regime shading, annotations, and exported PNG/GIF assets ready for PPT. |
| **Modeling & strategy** | Quantifies “what happens next” and actionability. | Compare LR/ARIMA vs Prophet/LSTM, implement MA crossover + predicted-return strategies, and output equity curves + confusion matrices. |
| **Notebook-first storytelling** | Slides/report should flow from notebooks. | Populate `notebooks/01-03` with markdown narration, saved charts/tables, and references indicating which slide/report section each asset supports. |

## Suggested team workflow

1. **Person A – Data ingestion lead**
   - Owns `src/data_loader.py` / CLI integrations to keep yfinance BTC/ETH/SOL pulls and OKX dominance candles healthy and timezone-clean.
   - Maintains Notebook 01’s ETL section (data dictionary, validation snippets) and ensures Excel export schemas stay stable.
2. **Person B – Feature engineering & cleaning**
   - Implements derived columns (returns, spreads, macro joins) inside Notebook 01 and supporting helpers in `src/analysis.py`.
   - Writes quick unit/notebook tests validating sample rows before data moves downstream.
3. **Person C – Indicator & macro analytics**
   - Extends `src/analysis.py` with rolling drawdown, Sharpe, volatility regimes, BTC–ETH z-scores, MA triggers, and documents each signal in Notebook 02 with code + commentary.
   - Hands off summarized tables/figures that cite the exact code cell for reuse.
4. **Person D – Visualization engineering**
   - Develops Plotly dashboards and Matplotlib figures inside `src/visualization.py`, wiring price/dominance/macro/model overlays plus annotations.
   - Automates figure export via CLI `--save-figures` or notebook cells, providing instructions/code for reproducing PNG/GIF assets.
5. **Person E – Modeling algorithms**
   - Focuses on model architectures inside Notebook 03 / `src/model.py` (LR/ARIMA baseline vs Prophet/LSTM), tuning hyperparameters and saving reusable checkpoints or inference helpers.
   - Documents training/evaluation code so others can reproduce metrics and swap models in or out.
6. **Person F – Strategy & pipeline integration**
   - Takes Person E’s predictions and owns the backtesting/export layer: wiring predictions into MA crossover / predicted-return strategies, extending `main.py` + Excel exports so new metrics land in the workbook.
   - Adds CLI/demo scripts that showcase the full pipeline (data → indicators → models → strategy outputs) and verifies each run emits the expected CSV/Excel/figure set.
